CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to DataLoader

We want to make contributing to this project as easy and transparent as
possible.

## Pull Requests

We actively welcome your pull requests for documentation and code.

1. Fork the repo and create your branch from `master`.
2. If you've added code that should be tested, add tests with 100% coverage.
3. If you've changed APIs, update the documentation.
4. Ensure the test suite passes.
5. Make sure your code lints.
6. If you haven't already, complete the Contributor License Agreement ("CLA").

## Contributor License Agreement ("CLA")

In order to accept your pull request, we need you to submit a CLA. You only need
to do this once to work on any of Facebook's open source projects.

Complete your CLA here: <https://code.facebook.com/cla>

## Issues

We use GitHub issues to track public bugs. Please ensure your description is
clear and has sufficient instructions to be able to reproduce the issue.

Facebook has a [bounty program](https://www.facebook.com/whitehat/) for the safe
disclosure of security bugs. In those cases, please go through the process
outlined on that page and do not file a public issue.

## Coding Style

* 2 spaces for indentation rather than tabs
* 80 character line length
* See .eslintrc for the gory details.

## License

By contributing to DataLoader, you agree that your contributions will be
licensed under its BSD license.

Commit message:

Add link to COC in `CONTRIBUTING.md`
We are about to add a `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md` document, and it makes sense to surface it in the `CONTRIBUTING.md`

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to DataLoader

We want to make contributing to this project as easy and transparent as
possible.

## Code of Conduct
The code of conduct is described in [`CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## Pull Requests

We actively welcome your pull requests for documentation and code.

1. Fork the repo and create your branch from `master`.
2. If you've added code that should be tested, add tests with 100% coverage.
3. If you've changed APIs, update the documentation.
4. Ensure the test suite passes.
5. Make sure your code lints.
6. If you haven't already, complete the Contributor License Agreement ("CLA").

## Contributor License Agreement ("CLA")

In order to accept your pull request, we need you to submit a CLA. You only need
to do this once to work on any of Facebook's open source projects.

Complete your CLA here: <https://code.facebook.com/cla>

## Issues

We use GitHub issues to track public bugs. Please ensure your description is
clear and has sufficient instructions to be able to reproduce the issue.

Facebook has a [bounty program](https://www.facebook.com/whitehat/) for the safe
disclosure of security bugs. In those cases, please go through the process
outlined on that page and do not file a public issue.

## Coding Style

* 2 spaces for indentation rather than tabs
* 80 character line length
* See .eslintrc for the gory details.

## License

By contributing to DataLoader, you agree that your contributions will be
licensed under its BSD license.
